Below mentioned installation steps are taken from : https://opensource.com/article/20/4/install-python-linux 

AVOID PLAGIARISM CASE HERE

Step 1: First, install development packages required to build Python.
On Debian:

$ sudo apt update
$ sudo apt install build-essential zlib1g-dev \
libncurses5-dev libgdbm-dev libnss3-dev \
libssl-dev libreadline-dev libffi-dev curl

On Fedora:

$ sudo dnf groupinstall development

Step 2: Download the stable latest release of Python 3

Visit the official Python website and download the latest version of Python 3. After the download is complete, you hav a .tar.xz archive file (a "tarball") containing the source code of Python.
Step 3: Extract the tarball

Once the download is complete, extract the tarball by either using the extractor application of your choice or the Linux tar command, for example:

$ tar -xf Python-3.?.?.tar.xz

Step 4: Configure the script

Once the Python tarball has been extracted, navigate to the configure script and execute it in your Linux terminal with:

$ cd Python-3.*
./configure

The configuration may take some time. Wait until it is successfully finishes before proceeding.
Step 5: Start the build process

If you already have a version of Python installed on your system and you want to install the new version alongside it, use this command:

$ sudo make altinstall

The build process may take some time.

If you want to replace your current version of Python with this new version, you should uninstall your current Python package using your package manager (such as apt or dnf) and then install:

$ sudo make install

However, it's generally preferable to install software as a package (such as a .deb or .rpm file) so your system can track and update it for you. Because this article assumes the latest Python isn't yet packaged yet, though, you probably don't have that option. In that case, you can either install Python with altinstall as suggested, or rebuild an existing Python package using the latest source code. That's an advanced topic and specific to your distribution, so it's out of scope for this article.
Step 6: Verify the installation

If you haven't encountered any errors, the latest Python is now installed on your Linux system. To verify it, write one of these commands in your terminal:

python3 --version

or

python --version

If the output says Python 3.x, Python 3 has been successfully installed.
